CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing Guidelines

Thank you for your interest in contributing to our project! 💛

Whether it's a bug report, new feature, correction, or additional documentation, we greatly value feedback and contributions from our community. Please read through these guidelines carefully before submitting a PR or issue and let us know if it's not up-to-date (or even better, submit a PR with your corrections 😉).

- [Our History and Ethos](#our-history-and-ethos)
- [Our Design](#our-design)
- [Development Process](#development-process)
  - [Setting up for local development](#setting-up-for-local-development)
  - [Architecture of the codebase](#architecture-of-the-codebase)
  - [Steps towards contributions](#steps-towards-contributions)
- [Bug Reports](#bug-reports)
- [Pull Requests](#pull-requests)
- [Debugging](#debugging)
- [Release](#release)
  - [Finding contributions to work on](#finding-contributions-to-work-on)
  - [Related Repositories](#related-repositories)
  - [Code of Conduct](#code-of-conduct)
  - [Security issue notifications](#security-issue-notifications)
  - [Licensing](#licensing)

# Our History and Ethos

AWS Amplify aims to enhance the development experience using JavaScript with AWS. Amplify codifies best practices through programmatic interfaces to help you effortlessly interact with cloud resources.

First and foremost Amplify exposes to you WHAT things do and then HOW best to do them. The WHAT is at a functional use case with HOW being an opinionated implementation that you can override with “escape hatches.” This will allow you to have higher velocity and build better applications by focusing less on implementation choices. Secondly, Amplify should be a manifestation of The Rule of Least Power when developing against AWS. This means it encourages architectural and programmatic best practices and the ability to start quickly. This shows by encouraging certain services (API Gateway usage vs. direct DynamoDB interaction) or certain connection patterns (Circuit breaker, retry counts and throttle up/down).

Opinionated implementations: There are many ways to interface with AWS Services. Certain service interactions are favored over others. For instance, if sending and receiving JSON, we would prefer an API Gateway endpoint to other mechanisms. Amplify will programmatically help optimize for cost and performance through library decisions.

Declarative actions: Amplify will provide you a reference to a generic client object and the ability to perform common actions. “RegisterUser”, “Login”, “SendObject”, “UpdateObject”, “StreamData”. By default you should not need to worry about AWS Service specific API operations like putItem() with a unique hash or even HTTP verbs.

Cascading service interactions: Certain actions in a declarative style can have overlapping or ambiguous AWS Service implementations. With an opinionated implementation, we can decide which Services are "primary" and which are "secondary" depending on what is configured. For instance, sending an image will prefer S3 over API Gateway.

Simple, standard data objects: Sending & receiving data to AWS Services can have many parameters, which tend to show up in the SDKs. These are abstracted and inferred, where possible, with simple JSON that the implementation can reason about. Standard parameters (bucket names, stream names, partition keys, etc.) that are part of the implementation are extracted from a simplified configuration file and dynamically generated/updated in order to further allow focus on state and data types only.

# Our Design

As more and more modules were introduced to AWS Amplify, it became necessary to modularize the library into smaller pieces so that users could avoid importing unnecessary parts into their app. The goal of this design is to make AWS Amplify modularized and also keep it backward-compatible to avoid breaking changes.

Modular import prevents unnecessary code dependencies from being included with the app, and thus decreases the bundle size while enabling added new functionality without the risk of introducing errors related to unused code.

Amplify has established the concepts of categories and plugins. A category is a collection of api calls that are exposed to the client to do things inside that category. For example, in the storage category, generally one wants to upload and download objects from storage so the apis exposed to the client will represent that functionality. Because Amplify is pluggable, a plugin of your choosing will provide the actual implementation behind that api interface. Using the same example of Storage, the plugin we choose might be AWSStoragePlugin which would then implement each api call from the category with a service call or set of service calls to S3, the underlying storage provider of the AWS plugin.

# Development Process

Our work is done directly on Github and PR's are sent to the GitHub repo by core team members and contributors. Everyone undergoes the same review process to get their changes into the repo.

## Setting up for local development

This section should get you running with **Amplify JS** and get you familiar with the basics of the codebase. You will need the latest version of [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) on your system and developing locally also requires `yarn` workspaces. You can install it [here](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/en/docs/install#mac-stable).

Start by [forking](https://help.github.com/en/github/getting-started-with-github/fork-a-repo) the main branch of [amplify-js](https://github.com/aws-amplify/amplify-js).

```
git clone git@github.com:[username]/amplify-js.git
cd amplify-js

yarn
yarn bootstrap
yarn build
```

> Note: Make sure to always [sync your fork](https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/syncing-a-fork) with main branch of `amplify-js`

## Architecture of the codebase

Amplify JS is a monorepo built with `Yarn` and `Lerna`. All the categories of Amplify live within the `packages` directory in the root. Each category inside packages has its own `src/` and `package.json`.

[**Packages inside Amplify JS Monorepo**](https://github.com/aws-amplify/amplify-js/tree/main/packages)

## Steps towards contributions

- To make changes with respect to a specific category, go into `packages/[category]`.
- Make changes to required file.
- Write unit tests
- Yarn build
- Run test suite
- Test in sample app using yarn linking
- Submit a PR

#### Build step:

```
yarn build --scope @aws-amplify/auth
```

#### Testing:

```
yarn run test --scope @aws-amplify/auth
```

> Note: There is a commit hook that will run the tests prior to committing. Please make sure if you are going to provide a pull request to be sure you include unit tests with your functionality and that all tests pass.

#### Test in a local sample app

**Yarn Linking**
The best way to develop locally and test is to link the individual package you’re working on and run lerna in watch mode.

Run watch mode while editing (auth for example):

```
npx lerna exec --scope @aws-amplify/auth yarn link
npx lerna exec --scope @aws-amplify/auth yarn build:esm:watch
```

Or run the whole library in watch mode if you are working on multiple packages

```
yarn build # Build the whole library
yarn link-all # Make all the packages available to link
yarn build:esm:watch # All packages are building ES6 modules in watch mode
```

In your sample project, you can now link specific packages

```
yarn link @aws-amplify/auth
```

Passing unit tests are only necessary if you’re looking to contribute a pull request. If you’re just playing locally, you don’t need them. However, if you’re contributing a pull request for anything other than making a change to the documentation, fixing a formatting issue in the code (i.e., white space, missing semi-colons) or another task that does not impact the functionality of the code, you will need to validate your proposed changes with passing unit tests.

**Using the setup-dev:react-native script to work with React-Native apps**

> Note: All the below commands to be run from the local amplify-js library root

To develop locally alongside a React-Native app, make sure to,

1. Finish the build steps mentioned in the section: `Setting up for local development` to set up your local `amplify-js` repository for development.

   > Note: To set up a sample React-Native app -- configure your [development environment](https://reactnative.dev/docs/environment-setup) and [create an app](https://reactnative.dev/docs/environment-setup#creating-a-new-application). Note the path to the app as it is required in the next step.

2. Run the below command in the root of the amplify-js local repository with a package name (auth for example):
   > Make sure to have [watchman](https://facebook.github.io/watchman/docs/install.html) installed before running the command below

```
npm run setup-dev:react-native -- --packages @aws-amplify/auth --target ~/path/to/your/rn/app/root
```

> Note: This script runs a continuous job in the newly opened tabs to watch, build and copy the changes unlike the usual linking method.

The options `--packages` is used to specify single or multiple package names and the `--target` option is used to specify the path to your sample React-Native app.
Optionally, you can use the shorthands flags `-p` and `-t` for packages and target path respectively.

> All scoped packages must be prefixed by `@aws-amplify/` . For example: `@aws-amplify/auth`

To develop multiple/all packages, provide the package names separated by a comma or the flag `--all` or `-a`:

```
npm run setup-dev:react-native -- --packages @aws-amplify/auth,aws-amplify-react-native --target ~/path/to/your/rn/app/root
npm run setup-dev:react-native -- --all --target ~/path/to/your/rn/app/root
```

> Note: `--` right after the script name is important to provide the flags with their values.

**Debugging problems with the `setup-dev:react-native` script**

- If the WML command does not do anything after adding the links, watch its src file using watchman. Run the below from the root of this repository:

  ```
  watchman watch node_modules/wml/src
  ```

- When using VScode, for the script to open a new terminal and tabs you will need to provide the editor accessiblity permissions.

#### Verdaccio

Verdaccio is a lightweight private npm proxy registry built in Node.js. Install [Verdaccio](https://verdaccio.org/docs/en/installation). You can setup Verdaccio to publish packages locally to test the changes.

To publish in Verdaccio, start a Verdaccio instance and then,

```
yarn config set registry http://localhost:4873/
yarn lerna publish --no-git-tag-version --no-push --force-publish
```

To publish a local version of a specific package,

```
cd packages/<category>
yarn publish --registry http://localhost:4873/
```

Once you are done with Verdaccio, you can reset to the default registry by doing,

```
yarn config set registry https://registry.yarnpkg.com
```

## Bug Reports

Bug reports and feature requests are always welcome. Good bug reports are extremely helpful, so thanks in advance!

When filing a bug, please try to be as detailed as possible. In addition to the bug report form information, details like these are incredibly useful:

- A reproducible test case or series of steps
- The date/commit/version(s) of the code you're running
- Any modifications you've made relevant to the bug
- Anything unusual about your environment or deployment

Guidelines for bug reports:

- Check to see if a [duplicate or closed issue](https://github.com/aws-amplify/amplify-js/issues?q=is%3Aissue+) already exists!
- Provide a short and descriptive issue title
- Remove any sensitive data from your examples or snippets
- Format any code snippets using [Markdown](https://docs.github.com/en/github/writing-on-github/creating-and-highlighting-code-blocks) syntax
- If you're not using the latest version of a [specific package](https://github.com/aws-amplify/amplify-js/tree/main/packages), see if the issue still persists after upgrading - this helps to isolate regressions!

Finally, thank you for taking the time to read this, and taking the time to write a good bug report.

# Pull Requests

Pull requests are welcome!

You should open an issue to discuss your pull request, unless it's a trivial change. It's best to ensure that your proposed change would be accepted so that you don't waste your own time. If you would like to implement support for a significant feature that is not yet available, please talk to us beforehand to avoid any duplication of effort.

_[Skip step 1 to 3 if you have already done this]_

1. Fork [`aws-amplify/amplify-js`](https://github.com/aws-amplify/amplify-js)
2. Clone your fork locally: `git clone git@github.com:YOUR_GITHUB_USERNAME/amplify-js.git`
3. Run `yarn && yarn bootstrap` in the repository root
4. Within your fork, create a new branch based on the issue (e.g. Issue #123) you're addressing - `git checkout -b "group-token/short-token-[branch-name]"` or `git checkout -b "short-token/[branch-name]"`
   - Use grouping tokens at the beginning of the branch names. For e.g, if you are working on changes specific to `amplify-ui-components`, then you could start the branch name as `ui-components/...`
   - short token
     - feat: A new feature
     - fix: A bug fix
     - docs: Documentation only changes
     - style: Changes that do not affect the meaning of the code (white-space, formatting, missing semi-colons, etc.)
     - refactor: A code change that neither fixes a bug nor adds a feature
     - perf: A code change that improves performance
     - test: Adding missing tests or correcting existing tests
     - build: Changes that affect the build system or external dependencies (example scopes: gulp, broccoli, npm)
     - ci: Changes to our CI configuration files and scripts (example scopes: Travis, Circle, BrowserStack, SauceLabs)
     - chore: Other changes that don't modify src or test files
     - revert: Reverts a previous commit
   - Use slashes to separate parts of branch names
   - Hyphenate well-defined branch name
5. Once your work is committed and you're ready to share, run test `yarn test`.

   **Note:** Manually test your changes in a sample app with different edge cases and also test across different browsers and platform

6. Then, Push your branch `git push origin -u`
7. This previous step will give you a URL to view a GitHub page in your browser. Copy-paste this, and complete the workflow in the UI. It will invite you to "create a PR" from your newly published branch. Fill out the PR template to submit a PR.
8. Finally, the Amplify JS team will review your PR. Add reviewers based on the core member who is tracking the issue with you or code owners. _In the meantime, address any automated check that fail (such as linting, unit tests, etc. in CI)_

# Debugging

Sometimes the issue can be solved by doing a clean and fresh build. To do this, make sure to remove your node modules and clean your packages. You can run `git clean -xdf` in the repository root to achieve this.

# Release

To give a bird's eye view of the release cycle,

- We follow semantic versioning for our releases
- Every merge into the `main` ends up as `unstable` package in the npm
- The core team will cut a release out to `stable` from `unstable` bi-weekly

## Finding contributions to work on

Looking at the existing issues is a great way to find something to contribute on. As our projects, by default, use the default GitHub issue labels (enhancement/bug/duplicate/help wanted/invalid/question/wontfix), looking at any [`help wanted`](https://github.com/aws-amplify/amplify-js/labels/help%20wanted) or [`good first issue`](https://github.com/aws-amplify/amplify-js/issues?q=is:open+is:issue+label:%22good+first+issue%22) is a great place to start.

You could also contribute by reporting bugs, reproduction of bugs with sample code, documentation and test improvements.

## Related Repositories

The Amplify Framework runs on Android, iOS, and numerous JavaScript-based web platforms.

1. [AWS Amplify for iOS](https://github.com/aws-amplify/amplify-ios)
2. [AWS Amplify for Android](https://github.com/aws-amplify/amplify-android)
3. [AWS Amplify CLI](https://github.com/aws-amplify/amplify-cli)

AWS Amplify plugins are built on top of the AWS SDKs. AWS SDKs are a
toolkit for interacting with AWS backend resources.

1. [AWS SDK for Android](https://github.com/aws-amplify/aws-sdk-android)
2. [AWS SDK for iOS](https://github.com/aws-amplify/aws-sdk-ios)
3. [AWS SDK for JavaScript](https://github.com/aws/aws-sdk-js)

## Code of Conduct

This project has adopted the [Amazon Open Source Code of Conduct](https://aws.github.io/code-of-conduct).
For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://aws.github.io/code-of-conduct-faq) or contact
opensource-codeofconduct@amazon.com with any additional questions or comments.

## Security issue notifications

If you discover a potential security issue in this project we ask that you notify AWS/Amazon Security via our [vulnerability reporting page](http://aws.amazon.com/security/vulnerability-reporting/). Please do **not** create a public GitHub issue.

## Licensing

See the [LICENSE](https://github.com/aws-amplify/amplify-js/blob/main/LICENSE) file for our project's licensing. We will ask you to confirm the licensing of your contribution.

We may ask you to sign a [Contributor License Agreement (CLA)](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Contributor_License_Agreement) for larger changes.

Commit message:

feature: Enable bundle size checks in CircleCI (#10876)

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing Guidelines

Thank you for your interest in contributing to our project! 💛

Whether it's a bug report, new feature, correction, or additional documentation, we greatly value feedback and contributions from our community. Please read through these guidelines carefully before submitting a PR or issue and let us know if it's not up-to-date (or even better, submit a PR with your corrections 😉).

- [Our History and Ethos](#our-history-and-ethos)
- [Our Design](#our-design)
- [Development Process](#development-process)
  - [Setting up for local development](#setting-up-for-local-development)
  - [Architecture of the codebase](#architecture-of-the-codebase)
  - [Steps towards contributions](#steps-towards-contributions)
- [Bug Reports](#bug-reports)
- [Pull Requests](#pull-requests)
- [Debugging](#debugging)
- [Release](#release)
  - [Finding contributions to work on](#finding-contributions-to-work-on)
  - [Related Repositories](#related-repositories)
  - [Code of Conduct](#code-of-conduct)
  - [Security issue notifications](#security-issue-notifications)
  - [Licensing](#licensing)

# Our History and Ethos

AWS Amplify aims to enhance the development experience using JavaScript with AWS. Amplify codifies best practices through programmatic interfaces to help you effortlessly interact with cloud resources.

First and foremost Amplify exposes to you WHAT things do and then HOW best to do them. The WHAT is at a functional use case with HOW being an opinionated implementation that you can override with “escape hatches.” This will allow you to have higher velocity and build better applications by focusing less on implementation choices. Secondly, Amplify should be a manifestation of The Rule of Least Power when developing against AWS. This means it encourages architectural and programmatic best practices and the ability to start quickly. This shows by encouraging certain services (API Gateway usage vs. direct DynamoDB interaction) or certain connection patterns (Circuit breaker, retry counts and throttle up/down).

Opinionated implementations: There are many ways to interface with AWS Services. Certain service interactions are favored over others. For instance, if sending and receiving JSON, we would prefer an API Gateway endpoint to other mechanisms. Amplify will programmatically help optimize for cost and performance through library decisions.

Declarative actions: Amplify will provide you a reference to a generic client object and the ability to perform common actions. “RegisterUser”, “Login”, “SendObject”, “UpdateObject”, “StreamData”. By default you should not need to worry about AWS Service specific API operations like putItem() with a unique hash or even HTTP verbs.

Cascading service interactions: Certain actions in a declarative style can have overlapping or ambiguous AWS Service implementations. With an opinionated implementation, we can decide which Services are "primary" and which are "secondary" depending on what is configured. For instance, sending an image will prefer S3 over API Gateway.

Simple, standard data objects: Sending & receiving data to AWS Services can have many parameters, which tend to show up in the SDKs. These are abstracted and inferred, where possible, with simple JSON that the implementation can reason about. Standard parameters (bucket names, stream names, partition keys, etc.) that are part of the implementation are extracted from a simplified configuration file and dynamically generated/updated in order to further allow focus on state and data types only.

# Our Design

As more and more modules were introduced to AWS Amplify, it became necessary to modularize the library into smaller pieces so that users could avoid importing unnecessary parts into their app. The goal of this design is to make AWS Amplify modularized and also keep it backward-compatible to avoid breaking changes.

Modular import prevents unnecessary code dependencies from being included with the app, and thus decreases the bundle size while enabling added new functionality without the risk of introducing errors related to unused code.

Amplify has established the concepts of categories and plugins. A category is a collection of api calls that are exposed to the client to do things inside that category. For example, in the storage category, generally one wants to upload and download objects from storage so the apis exposed to the client will represent that functionality. Because Amplify is pluggable, a plugin of your choosing will provide the actual implementation behind that api interface. Using the same example of Storage, the plugin we choose might be AWSStoragePlugin which would then implement each api call from the category with a service call or set of service calls to S3, the underlying storage provider of the AWS plugin.

# Development Process

Our work is done directly on Github and PR's are sent to the GitHub repo by core team members and contributors. Everyone undergoes the same review process to get their changes into the repo.

## Setting up for local development

This section should get you running with **Amplify JS** and get you familiar with the basics of the codebase. You will need the latest version of [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) on your system and developing locally also requires `yarn` workspaces. You can install it [here](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/en/docs/install#mac-stable).

Start by [forking](https://help.github.com/en/github/getting-started-with-github/fork-a-repo) the main branch of [amplify-js](https://github.com/aws-amplify/amplify-js).

```
git clone git@github.com:[username]/amplify-js.git
cd amplify-js

yarn
yarn bootstrap
yarn build
```

> Note: Make sure to always [sync your fork](https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/syncing-a-fork) with main branch of `amplify-js`

## Architecture of the codebase

Amplify JS is a monorepo built with `Yarn` and `Lerna`. All the categories of Amplify live within the `packages` directory in the root. Each category inside packages has its own `src/` and `package.json`.

[**Packages inside Amplify JS Monorepo**](https://github.com/aws-amplify/amplify-js/tree/main/packages)

## Steps towards contributions

- To make changes with respect to a specific category, go into `packages/[category]`.
- Make changes to required file.
- Write unit tests
- Yarn build
- Run test suite
- Test in sample app using yarn linking
- Submit a PR

#### Build step:

```
yarn build --scope @aws-amplify/auth
```

#### Testing:

```
yarn run test --scope @aws-amplify/auth
```

> Note: There is a commit hook that will run the tests prior to committing. Please make sure if you are going to provide a pull request to be sure you include unit tests with your functionality and that all tests pass.

#### Test in a local sample app

**Yarn Linking**
The best way to develop locally and test is to link the individual package you’re working on and run lerna in watch mode.

Run watch mode while editing (auth for example):

```
npx lerna exec --scope @aws-amplify/auth yarn link
npx lerna exec --scope @aws-amplify/auth yarn build:esm:watch
```

Or run the whole library in watch mode if you are working on multiple packages

```
yarn build # Build the whole library
yarn link-all # Make all the packages available to link
yarn build:esm:watch # All packages are building ES6 modules in watch mode
```

In your sample project, you can now link specific packages

```
yarn link @aws-amplify/auth
```

Passing unit tests are only necessary if you’re looking to contribute a pull request. If you’re just playing locally, you don’t need them. However, if you’re contributing a pull request for anything other than making a change to the documentation, fixing a formatting issue in the code (i.e., white space, missing semi-colons) or another task that does not impact the functionality of the code, you will need to validate your proposed changes with passing unit tests.

**Using the setup-dev:react-native script to work with React-Native apps**

> Note: All the below commands to be run from the local amplify-js library root

To develop locally alongside a React-Native app, make sure to,

1. Finish the build steps mentioned in the section: `Setting up for local development` to set up your local `amplify-js` repository for development.

   > Note: To set up a sample React-Native app -- configure your [development environment](https://reactnative.dev/docs/environment-setup) and [create an app](https://reactnative.dev/docs/environment-setup#creating-a-new-application). Note the path to the app as it is required in the next step.

2. Run the below command in the root of the amplify-js local repository with a package name (auth for example):
   > Make sure to have [watchman](https://facebook.github.io/watchman/docs/install.html) installed before running the command below

```
npm run setup-dev:react-native -- --packages @aws-amplify/auth --target ~/path/to/your/rn/app/root
```

> Note: This script runs a continuous job in the newly opened tabs to watch, build and copy the changes unlike the usual linking method.

The options `--packages` is used to specify single or multiple package names and the `--target` option is used to specify the path to your sample React-Native app.
Optionally, you can use the shorthands flags `-p` and `-t` for packages and target path respectively.

> All scoped packages must be prefixed by `@aws-amplify/` . For example: `@aws-amplify/auth`

To develop multiple/all packages, provide the package names separated by a comma or the flag `--all` or `-a`:

```
npm run setup-dev:react-native -- --packages @aws-amplify/auth,aws-amplify-react-native --target ~/path/to/your/rn/app/root
npm run setup-dev:react-native -- --all --target ~/path/to/your/rn/app/root
```

> Note: `--` right after the script name is important to provide the flags with their values.

**Debugging problems with the `setup-dev:react-native` script**

- If the WML command does not do anything after adding the links, watch its src file using watchman. Run the below from the root of this repository:

  ```
  watchman watch node_modules/wml/src
  ```

- When using VScode, for the script to open a new terminal and tabs you will need to provide the editor accessiblity permissions.

#### Verdaccio

Verdaccio is a lightweight private npm proxy registry built in Node.js. Install [Verdaccio](https://verdaccio.org/docs/en/installation). You can setup Verdaccio to publish packages locally to test the changes.

To publish in Verdaccio, start a Verdaccio instance and then,

```
yarn config set registry http://localhost:4873/
yarn lerna publish --no-git-tag-version --no-push --force-publish
```

To publish a local version of a specific package,

```
cd packages/<category>
yarn publish --registry http://localhost:4873/
```

Once you are done with Verdaccio, you can reset to the default registry by doing,

```
yarn config set registry https://registry.yarnpkg.com
```

#### Bundle Size Checks

Amplify JS enforces bundle size checks against incoming PRs. It uses the [size-limit](https://github.com/ai/size-limit) utility to test the Webpack tree-shaken footprint of common import patterns for a given category.

The configuration for each category can be found in the associated package's `package.json` file under the `size-limit` key.

##### Local Invocation & Regression Debugging

The bundle size test can be performed locally (after building) by invoking the `test:size` build target in each package or in the mono-repo package. Bundle size regressions associated with a given change can be debugged by specifying the `--why` flag, e.g. `yarn test:size --why`, which will open a Statoscope instance to permit analysis of the generated bundle.

To dump the generated `stats.json` for analysis in different tools: `yarn test:size --save-bundle test_bundle` (bundle will be saved to `test_bundle` directory)

To compare & diff one build with another: `yarn test:size --why --compare-with test_bundle/stats.json`

## Bug Reports

Bug reports and feature requests are always welcome. Good bug reports are extremely helpful, so thanks in advance!

When filing a bug, please try to be as detailed as possible. In addition to the bug report form information, details like these are incredibly useful:

- A reproducible test case or series of steps
- The date/commit/version(s) of the code you're running
- Any modifications you've made relevant to the bug
- Anything unusual about your environment or deployment

Guidelines for bug reports:

- Check to see if a [duplicate or closed issue](https://github.com/aws-amplify/amplify-js/issues?q=is%3Aissue+) already exists!
- Provide a short and descriptive issue title
- Remove any sensitive data from your examples or snippets
- Format any code snippets using [Markdown](https://docs.github.com/en/github/writing-on-github/creating-and-highlighting-code-blocks) syntax
- If you're not using the latest version of a [specific package](https://github.com/aws-amplify/amplify-js/tree/main/packages), see if the issue still persists after upgrading - this helps to isolate regressions!

Finally, thank you for taking the time to read this, and taking the time to write a good bug report.

# Pull Requests

Pull requests are welcome!

You should open an issue to discuss your pull request, unless it's a trivial change. It's best to ensure that your proposed change would be accepted so that you don't waste your own time. If you would like to implement support for a significant feature that is not yet available, please talk to us beforehand to avoid any duplication of effort.

_[Skip step 1 to 3 if you have already done this]_

1. Fork [`aws-amplify/amplify-js`](https://github.com/aws-amplify/amplify-js)
2. Clone your fork locally: `git clone git@github.com:YOUR_GITHUB_USERNAME/amplify-js.git`
3. Run `yarn && yarn bootstrap` in the repository root
4. Within your fork, create a new branch based on the issue (e.g. Issue #123) you're addressing - `git checkout -b "group-token/short-token-[branch-name]"` or `git checkout -b "short-token/[branch-name]"`
   - Use grouping tokens at the beginning of the branch names. For e.g, if you are working on changes specific to `amplify-ui-components`, then you could start the branch name as `ui-components/...`
   - short token
     - feat: A new feature
     - fix: A bug fix
     - docs: Documentation only changes
     - style: Changes that do not affect the meaning of the code (white-space, formatting, missing semi-colons, etc.)
     - refactor: A code change that neither fixes a bug nor adds a feature
     - perf: A code change that improves performance
     - test: Adding missing tests or correcting existing tests
     - build: Changes that affect the build system or external dependencies (example scopes: gulp, broccoli, npm)
     - ci: Changes to our CI configuration files and scripts (example scopes: Travis, Circle, BrowserStack, SauceLabs)
     - chore: Other changes that don't modify src or test files
     - revert: Reverts a previous commit
   - Use slashes to separate parts of branch names
   - Hyphenate well-defined branch name
5. Once your work is committed and you're ready to share, run test `yarn test`.

   **Note:** Manually test your changes in a sample app with different edge cases and also test across different browsers and platform

6. Then, Push your branch `git push origin -u`
7. This previous step will give you a URL to view a GitHub page in your browser. Copy-paste this, and complete the workflow in the UI. It will invite you to "create a PR" from your newly published branch. Fill out the PR template to submit a PR.
8. Finally, the Amplify JS team will review your PR. Add reviewers based on the core member who is tracking the issue with you or code owners. _In the meantime, address any automated check that fail (such as linting, unit tests, etc. in CI)_

# Debugging

Sometimes the issue can be solved by doing a clean and fresh build. To do this, make sure to remove your node modules and clean your packages. You can run `git clean -xdf` in the repository root to achieve this.

# Release

To give a bird's eye view of the release cycle,

- We follow semantic versioning for our releases
- Every merge into the `main` ends up as `unstable` package in the npm
- The core team will cut a release out to `stable` from `unstable` bi-weekly

## Finding contributions to work on

Looking at the existing issues is a great way to find something to contribute on. As our projects, by default, use the default GitHub issue labels (enhancement/bug/duplicate/help wanted/invalid/question/wontfix), looking at any [`help wanted`](https://github.com/aws-amplify/amplify-js/labels/help%20wanted) or [`good first issue`](https://github.com/aws-amplify/amplify-js/issues?q=is:open+is:issue+label:%22good+first+issue%22) is a great place to start.

You could also contribute by reporting bugs, reproduction of bugs with sample code, documentation and test improvements.

## Related Repositories

The Amplify Framework runs on Android, iOS, and numerous JavaScript-based web platforms.

1. [AWS Amplify for iOS](https://github.com/aws-amplify/amplify-ios)
2. [AWS Amplify for Android](https://github.com/aws-amplify/amplify-android)
3. [AWS Amplify CLI](https://github.com/aws-amplify/amplify-cli)

AWS Amplify plugins are built on top of the AWS SDKs. AWS SDKs are a
toolkit for interacting with AWS backend resources.

1. [AWS SDK for Android](https://github.com/aws-amplify/aws-sdk-android)
2. [AWS SDK for iOS](https://github.com/aws-amplify/aws-sdk-ios)
3. [AWS SDK for JavaScript](https://github.com/aws/aws-sdk-js)

## Code of Conduct

This project has adopted the [Amazon Open Source Code of Conduct](https://aws.github.io/code-of-conduct).
For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://aws.github.io/code-of-conduct-faq) or contact
opensource-codeofconduct@amazon.com with any additional questions or comments.

## Security issue notifications

If you discover a potential security issue in this project we ask that you notify AWS/Amazon Security via our [vulnerability reporting page](http://aws.amazon.com/security/vulnerability-reporting/). Please do **not** create a public GitHub issue.

## Licensing

See the [LICENSE](https://github.com/aws-amplify/amplify-js/blob/main/LICENSE) file for our project's licensing. We will ask you to confirm the licensing of your contribution.

We may ask you to sign a [Contributor License Agreement (CLA)](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Contributor_License_Agreement) for larger changes.
